
 1. What is Database?
    Database is collection structured data.
    A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data,
    typically stored electronically in a computer system.
    A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS). 
    Together, the data and the DBMS, along with the applications that are associated with them, are referred to as a database system
    
 2. What is Schema?
    Schema is a logically representation of database.
    A database schema is the skeleton structure that represents the logical view of the entire database.
    It defines how the data is organized and how the relations among them are associated
    
 3. Whast is Structered database? 
    Structured data is data that has been predefined and formatted to a set structure before being placed in data storage
    
    Types of database
      Structured Data
      Unstructured Data
      Semi-Structured Data
    
    Structured Data
      Structured data are those type of data which ara stored already in an order, There are neary 20% of the total existing data are structured data.
      All the generated from sensors,webblogs,there are all machine generated structured data. the human generated structured data are those which are taken 
      as information from a human. Like their names,dob etc.
      Example if structured data is database.
    
    Unstructured Data
      The Unstructured data have no clear format in storage. We can store structured data in row-column database. But unstructured data can not be store like that.
      At lest 80% of data are unstructured. All satelite-generated images,sceintific data or images are categorized as machine-generated unstructured data.
      There  are varius types of human-generated unstructured data. These are iamges, videos,social media data etc.
      The example of unstructured data are text documents, pdfs images and vides etc.
    
    Semi-structured Data
      It is very difficult  to categorize the type of data. Sometimes they look structured or sometimes unstructured. So that's why these data are known as semi-structured
      data. We can not store these type of data using tradional databasde format, But it contains some organizetional  properties.
      The example of semi-structured data are spread sheet files, XML or json documents, NoSQL database items etc.
      
    What is database.   
    Database is a collection of structured data. A DBMS consists of a collection of  
    interrelated data and a set of programs to access that data.
    
    What is SQL
    Structured Query Language (SQL) is the standard command set used to communicate with the relational database management systems.
    All tasks related to relational data  management creating tables, querying the database for information. Modifying the data in the database, deleting them ,
    granting access to users and so on can be done using SQL.
    
    
  Database 
    Database is a collection of structured data.

  What is DBMS
    Database is a collection of structured data.
    A DBMS consists of a collection of interrelated data and a set of programs to access that data.
  
  What is data types
  A Data Type specifies a particular type of data, like integer, floating points, Boolean, etc. ...
  In MySQL, each database table has many columns and contains specific data types for each column.

  What is SQL.
    SQL stands for structured Query Language and it is used for communicating with the database.
    according to ANSI There is a standard query language for relational database management
    systems whitch is used for maintaining the relational database and also the perform different
    operations of data manipulation on different types of data so sql is widely used language for maintaining relational database
    so basically it is a database language which is used for creation and deletion of database and it can be used to fetch and
    modify rows form the table and also multiple other things


  Explain about the different types of SQL Commands
   SQL Commands divided into 4 categories

   1. Data Query Language         (Select)
   2. Data Definition Language    (Create Table,Alter Table, Drop Table)
   3. Data Manipulating Lanuage   (Insert,Update,Delete)
   4. Data Control Lanuage        (Grant,Revoke)

  What are constraints? Explain about default and unique constraints.
   Constraints are used to specity rules for data in table
   
   Default constraints sets a default value for a column when no value is specified
   Unique constraint ensures that all values in a column are different

  How would you find the 2nd highest salary from the table?
   select max(salary) from emp where salary not in(select max(salary) from emp)
   select * from emp order by desc salary limit 2,1

  What do you understand by Normalization and De-Normalization
   Normalization is the process of reducing data redundancy by organizing field and table of a database
   Denormalization is the process of adding redundant data to speed up complex queries.

  What is different between having and group by?

  What do you know about stuff() function?
   Stuff function delete part of the string and then insert another part into the string
   stuff(string1,position,length,string2);
   select stuff(''shiv tutorial' , '1' , '4' , 'Shivam' );
   Result shivam tutotial

  What is view? Give an example
   A view is a virtual table based of the result set of a sql statement.
   CREATE VIEW vendor as select * from employees where role = 1

 What is a stored procedure? Give an example
   A Stored procedure is a prepared SQL code which can be saved and resued

11. What do you understand about join? Explain about different joins
    A join clause is used to combile record form two or more tables in a database
    Join is a query in which data is retrieved from two or more table.
    A join matches data from two or more tables, based on the values of one or more columns in each table.

12. Need Of Join
    In a database where the tables are normalized, one table may not give you all the information about a particular entity. 

     Different joins 
            - Inner Join
            - Left Join
            - Right Join
            - Full Join
    Inner Join

    

